# Batter vs. Pitcher Simulation Example
This project is based on a job application submission that asked for an example of a project that I believed would add value to a MLB team. The basic idea is that there are certain game decisions (e.g. lineup construction, choosing a relief pitcher or pinch-hitter for a certain matchup, etc.) that could potentially be optimized with more information. My thought was that you could essentially use Statcast data to build a model that would simulate batter vs. pitcher matchups and condense them into a single number that would represent either a batter or pitcher advantage for each possible combination in a series.

## Overview
I figured that a fairly straightforward way to approach this would be to build a model for each batter that classifies outcomes based on pitch data. The initial version of this model that I built takes variables like release speed, spin rate, release position, pitch location, as well as some discrete variables, and predicts, based on the training data, the probability of that pitch being each of Ball, Strike, Hit by Pitch, Single, Double, Home Run, Out (more information on why I chose these classes to come). In other words predicting a single pitch should return eight probabilities, one for each class. Then, using wOBA values for each class, you can condense the weighted value of that pitch into a single number. To simulate a batter vs. pitcher matchup, you would use all of a pitcher's pitches as inputs, and run them through the batter's model, essentially estimating how that batter would have performed if he faced all of that pitcher's pitches. The output can then be summarized in a variety of ways. You can estimate the total number of each outcome for that matchup, as well as the expected per-pitch value generated by the batter. As a practical example, you could use that per-pitch metric to estimate which of your relievers might match up better against a certain hitter based on his past results and the pitches those relievers throw.
